# Difference

Edgerunner is a collaborative game. That is, everyone at the table shares the responsibility of running a rich, smooth and enjoyable game. If you come from an established traditional RPG background, you may be expecting one or more of the ideas below, but you should replace them with their new counterparts when playing Edgerunner Traditional RPG's **Edgerunner** The gamemaster prepares an adventure in advance, putting down hours of hard work Everyone in the game gets together and spend a couple of hours building their own world, plot, and characters from scratch. There is no authority, only consensus during this phase. The game world is an established, rich setting, complete with maps, NPCs, monsters etc. It is based on some fiction that is canon, untouchable even by the GM The gamemaster is the ultimate authority, in other words, god, in the game. The referee is not an authority. The table decides collectively, and the referee only has a tiebreaker vote. The referee's main task is playing the rest of the world. Just like a player. The players are expected to behave in character. They are not supposed to know what their character does not know. The players are expected to keep a double awareness. The character may know little, but nothing is hidden from a player. The player is supposed to keep his knowledge and his character's knowledge separate. The gamemaster reveals a plot and the characters react to that plot. The players pursue a plot they created, and the referee makes the plot react. The players are the actors portraying the characters The players are puppeteers _controlling_ the characters and some other things

